--- 
layout: post
title: Funds 'R' US
categories:
  - idea
intro: "Is it only me, or its a bit annoying every year around Christmas, Birthday's, etc, where you never know exactly what to offer and end up buying & offering useless stuff..."
---

Is it only me, or its a bit annoying every year around Christmas, Birthday's,
etc, where you never know exactly what to offer and end up buying & offering useless stuff...

Its still nice to offer little things anyway, a typical valentine's
day gift should not be changed i guess, but from a pragmatic point of view,
offering yet another pijama is just.. waste...

A common Deja Vu ?: "Its a week to Christmas, i'm on the shopping mall
already, i need to buy Andrew a gift, what can i get him?? lets check the
bookstore. What could he like... maybe this cars collection book... or this
landscapes photo album...

How about if we offer something to Andrew that he really wants/needs? I know
that already exists wishlists, amazon, google etc.. have them, and they are
very nice.. you can look at Andrew's wish list he has a book there he really
wants, cool lets get that. But how about big things? things that by yourself
you cannot offer to Andrew.

Like, Andrew really wants a piano. I cannot offer Andrew a piano, but maybe i
can contribute to Andrew's piano, kinda like buying a couple of piano keys...

Thats where Funds'R'US come in, Andrew would go to Funds'R'US and create there
a piano fund for him. When its Christmas time i can go to Funds'R'US and check
Andrew's Funds, and find out that he really wants a piano, so I can online,
quickly, without needing to go look for random stuff in shops, give him
something useful and that will make Andrew really happy. So i would deposit
some money into Andrew's piano fund and then Funds'R'US could even send a
personalized postcard to Andrew with a picture of a piano with a fraction of
the picture selected saying: Merry Christmas, Alex. After enough christmas and
birthdays passing by, Andrew will eventually get money for a full piano,
instead of a pile of not so useful stuff.

Discussing this idea, with a friend of mine, Safin Ahmed (the zen master of
(crazy?)ideas :) ) he suggested extending this idea a bit further, actually
the Funds'R'US could even support more than personal funds, they could have
organizations Funds. Like Unicef wants to offer a health care center to a
needing city. Or your own town homeless center supporting more 5 people for
next winter. etc.. etc...

