---
layout: post
title: Work, Being Productive and Tools
category: cheatsheet
tags:
  - productivity  
intro: "General rules for work, being productive and tooling"
---

### Precepts of Work

  - Working on something relevant in 1-5 year? What problem does it solve?(the Macro)
  - Follow the top success in the field
  - Are are you contributing something back? Both to world and to your direct employer.
  - Build(& dont burn) bridges
  - Allocate time to learn
  - Allocate time for the slow but long-term important work. Don't be trapped by the urgent short-term rat-race
  
### Precepts of Productivity

  - Brain gets tired as day goes by(some say only 4 hours of full on concentration)
  - 20 mins sport, greatly boosts productivity.
  - Brain dump, write down todo list, define priorities and forget about them, don't keep worring about things.
  - Order (& tackle) todo list by importance.
  - Kill notifications: email / IM is almost like a helpdesk, schedule times for it, don't be driven by it, better is to drive it.
  - Schedule your priorities - checking your goals, defining what needs to happen first, book/block time in calendar for priorities. - maybe start of day, define what is the most important things i need to do.
  - No multitasking. Sounds fancy, but adds overhead of context switching that drains attention/energy from the key problems.
 
Reference: http://abetterlife.quora.com/How-to-master-your-time-1


### Precepts of Tools
  - Best tool for the job, a means to an end
  - Make each program do 1 thing well
  - Make each program a (standalone)filter    
  - Be very familiar with just a few
  - Tools will change / deprecate: Avoid investing too much into tools(becuase will as side-effect resist change in future)
  - Prefer output to console instead of writing to file, easier to filter output, when used from other programs.
  - Get it running ASAP =agile
  - Do tests for important things, they can save you from trouble
  - Math is a great tool

Reference: Inspired by the Unix Philosophy: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy#Mike_Gancarz:_The_UNIX_Philosophy
