---
layout: post
title: Health & Food
category: cheatsheet
tags:
  - health
intro: "Health and Food Cheet Sheet"
---

Our bodies are result of evolution over thousands of years on a specific diet and on a specific type of physical exercise, and that is what the body was "trained" to understand better, so the closer to that the more likelly to be healthier.

### On the Plate

- 1/2 vegetables(and fruit)
- 1/4 protein: fish, meat
- 1/4 grain or legumes(beans)

### General 

 - Almost anything that is industrially processed/refined is bad, refined flour, artificial flavourings, etc... General Rule, the less processed the better.
 - Deep reds natural foods are healthy and prevent cancer, many antioxidants - berries, raisins, pomegranate.
 - AB test routines, foods, cooking methods, etc... try find what better works for you. Every body is a tiny bit different.
 - Depression, anxiety disorders seems to be correlated to bad gut = a damaged/unhealthy intestinal track for prolonged periods of time. Good bacteria helps recover the gut, go for natural fermented foods: sauerkraut, keefir, jogurt.
 - Sleep is underated, make an effort to sleep well.

### Cooking

- High temperatures cooking often alters chemical properties and if overdone can became harmfull. Keep the cooking temperature low. (see sous-vide cooking)
- Soups(made at home) can be very nutricious. Outside(of home) are not mandatorily healthier, because can have blended anything into them..

### Diets

- How to be slim, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xS8nt0qoRuc
- Calories, what makes gain weight
- Protein, makes feel full
- Reduce portion size, smaller plate
- Soups are great, for filling
- Calcium blocks fat from being absorved: whats is best jogurt or keefir ?

### Low Carb Diet

Great to loose weight, lack of carbs forces body into ketosis state, which burns fat instead of carbs, causing weight loss.

- Avoid carbohydrates: rice, potato, bread, pasta, flour
- Avoid sugars. (Fruit slows down the weight loss, but is healthy)
- Use protein to feel full: meat, egg white, fish
- Legume(beans) contains protein and good nutrition

As with anything else, too much of 1 thing might be bad if prolonged for too long, so probably better for only a limited period of time. 

Beware very monotone diets can lead to specific nutrient deficiency.

### Digestion

- Order of food matters. Mixing slow digestion food with fast digestion, will force some food to stay longer in intestinal track than it should. Food starts to go bad, and gets absorved into blood stream.

- Fast to Slow digestion: water, fruit, vegetables, legumes, chicken, whole milk, pork.

- Good trick to fill full: soups. Water by itself goes fast in intestinal track, but if mixed into a soup with other food, it will remain in stomach longer, and signal fullness.

### Body Recovery

 - How 2 Stay Young & Beautiful - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AMC-D7uu3L8

### Vitamins

 - A: avoid in excess, enough from food
 - E: ok to take
 - C: not harmfull, but probably getting all from foods

### Sport

- The Truth About Exercise http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tyQSzx0ofto
- 1 min per exercise, 20 sec sprints, pushing it as hard as possible.
