---
layout: post
title: OKR
category: data
tags:
  - data
intro: "objectives and key results"
---

<br>

# What 

OKR (Objectives and Key Results) is a goal system used by many companies, but popularized by Google. It is a simple tool to create alignment and engagement around measurable goals.

Looks like this: I will (Objective) as measured by (this set of Key Results)


# Why 

- "If you don't know where you are going, you might not get there." - Yogi Berra  
- OKR's helps you articulate your goals
- OKR's process helps track and measure progress


# How

- Objectives may or may not be measurable but must be strategic
- KRs (Key results) are measurable
- Makes sense to have strategic yearly (and/or 2-5y) OKR's, and then also more tactical (by nature) quarterly OKR's. The quarterly ones are the initiatives / investment / hypothesis to achieve the longer term OKR's.
- Are public, for transparency on commitment. Making them transparent to others means others understand your goals, and can offer mutual benefit partnerships.
- In an organization top level goals should align with individual OKRs. At an individual level they can be checked for alignment to top level. Alignment does not mean a hard cascading style.
- At work, Individual contributors should take initiative to create up to 60% of their own goals on what they think they should do and how to use their abilities in the best way. i.e. not 100% of the OKR's should be dictated by manager. There will be a negotiation phase on each quarter to set them
- Max of 5 objectives, with up to 3 KR's  per quarter. That translates into 15 total and an average of  1.25 KR's per week (on average)
- Note that the evaluation is in fact defined at the phase of setting the OKR's, in the sense that at end of quarter it takes only a few minutes to score up the points and check what was done versus not.
- When setting your OKRs:
   - Your action plan and initiatives are a collection of things that you are placing a bet that will deliver impact towards the end goal.
   - A Key Result is not just the thing that you do (an activity). It is instead the successful outcome of what you did (the impact).
   - Are your KR's measuring effort or results? Are your KRs focused on your objective or on the means to get there? There are 2 types of KR's: Activity based (i did A) VERSUS Value based ( i improved from x to y), prefer the latter.
   - Delivering an initiative is great, it accumulates experience and hopefully side-effects over time, but is not enough in itself, in reality it might or it might not deliver direct impact towards the end goal.
   - Instead of tracking the delivery of a project, we should measure the indicators that motivated it in the first place. Example, if we successfully migrate the platform we will reduce infrastructure costs from X to Y.
   - All in all use common sense
- Regular check-ins:
  - Do not “Set it and Forget it”, instead refresh regularly
  - What changed since last check-in?
  - We confident we will achieve the KR's at this rhythm?
  - What is slowing down progress?
  - What will we do to fix it?
  - Use the model, what should we: Start doing / Stop doing / Continue doing ?
- Do a retrospect of what worked and what didn't, why i got that score, more important is the point of view of learning on the goals and on the process:
  - Was planing good?
  - Less than 3/4 achieved, what happened?
  - What is my grade? (average the scores, avoid weighting)
  - What did i learn?
  - OKRs that haven’t been achieved in the previous cycle are re-evaluated so they can be included in the next quarter or discarded if they are no longer necessary.
- OKRs achievement are 1 input / variable into the rewards the discussion, not the totality of it.


# When

Start of quarters, do retrospect, define new goals: Jan, April, July, October.

Also, do mid quarter reviews (as a regular check-in).

And to keep rhythm do weekly check-ins.

# FAQ

> What if my goals depend on other people or things out of my control?
Detach, if 1 individual is the blocker, find alternatives to get to the goal through another individual. The KR cannot be tied to individuals but to an initiative that needs completed.



# Reference

- Startup Lab workshop: How Google sets goals, Rick Klau,  https://youtu.be/mJB83EZtAjc 
- OKR's:  https://felipecastro.com/en/okr/success-criteria-types-key-results/
- Measure what matters, John Doerr: https://www.goodreads.com/work/quotes/54960827-measure-what-matters

<br>